AWS region is a geographically separated portion of the AWS global infrastructure.
This geographic separation can help your platform
continue to operate through a wide array of conditions,
including major internet disruptions or natural disasters.
Each region is separated from the others by hundreds of miles.
They are isolated so that they are not interdependent,
but they are connected by a global high-speed,
high bandwidth private AWS network.
Regions are also highly useful when dealing with personal,
health, or financial data,
where local governments may have
data locality laws requiring that citizen data is not stored in other countries.
Today, there are more than 20 regions spread around the world
and terabits or multiple terabits of bandwidth between regions.
AWS has a global private fiber network with redundant paths.
AWS has complete control over this network.
Creating applications that run actively in multiple regions at the same time,
provides for global redundancy and fast delivery to local users.
An active multi-region application has data and services
spread throughout the world and can be resilient to most types of service interruption.
A well-constructed multi-region application is,
pick a catchphrase, world-class,
enterprise grade, industrial strength.
You have access on AWS to build the highest tier of reliable,
available, and resilient platforms.
Before Public Clouds, this level of performance
was only available to multi-billion dollar companies.
Running in multiple regions is completely optional.
In fact, if you don't intentionally try to,
you'll only be running in one region.
Most AWS services must be managed on a per region basis.
When you create resources in one region,
it does not exist in the other regions.
There are a few exceptions to this,
and they are the AWS,
global services such as IAM,
where identity and access management must span the entirety of AWS.
Another example is Cloudfront,
where the primary goal of the service is to distribute data globally.
S3 is also a global service,
and that every region is displayed at once in the AWS console,
but an S3 bucket still lives in a single region.
One reason for this is that there is
typically some amount of additional costs to run a multiple regions.
You must determine if your use case warrants the cost and complexity.
As AWS build services,
they generally released them at first to only some
regions.This allows AWS to slowly bring
some users onto a service.This is
another example of how AWS regions are managed independently.
Make sure that a service is available and all
of the regions you utilize before adopting that service.
Database console shows you which region you're currently working in,
in the upper right-hand corner.
You also need to specify a region when you work with the AWS CLI or an AWS SDK,
if you find yourself suddenly missing several resources,
make sure you're looking at the correct region.
On occasion, the AWS counsel can accidentally switch regions on you.